Food Insecuirty and the SNAP in America Proposal
================
Caroline Andy, Vasili Fokaidis, Stella Li, and Tessa Senders  
UNIs: cma2226, vf2280, cl4043, and ts3349
  
11/5/2020

## Food Insecurity and the SNAP in America

The motivation for this project:

Food insecurity remains a major issue in America with around [38 million
people nationwide on Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)
in 2019](https://www.cbpp.org/research/food-assistance/a-closer-look-at-who-benefits-from-snap-state-by-state-fact-sheets#Alabama).
This represents about 12% of the total population. We are interested in
looking deeper into the issue of food insecurity in America and the use
of SNAP to determine what areas and demographics in the US are the most
affected by food insecurity, by what magnitude people suffer from food
insecurity, and how has the issue of food insecurity changed over the
last ten years.

The intended final products:

The final product of this project will include a website, scrrencast,
and final report about food insecurity in America and specifically the
state of New York. Within the website information on the analysis of the
data set, the findings, the motivation behind the project, information
on the data sets used, summary tables and our interactive plots
(including maps) will be provided. Through the use of `shinyApp`,
`plotly`, and Flexdashboard, we will produce interactive visualizations
of various variables including demographics, geographical data, and
other variables regarding food insecurity in America.

The anticipated data sources:

We plan on using the “Map the Meal Gap” data from Feeding America from
2009-2018. In addition, we plan to link to American Community Survey US
Census data on the county and/or state level. Specifically, we plan to
use geographic summary tables containing breakdowns of relevant social
determinants of health, including percent of people who are foreign
born, percent of people without health insurance, and percent of people
who have various degrees of educational attainment.

The planned analyses / visualizations / coding challenges:

We plan on analyzing the rates of food insecurity by state and region.
We also plan on specifically comparing the prevalence of food insecurity
across New York (New York City versus some of the rural counties in the
state). Summary tables will be used to compare states and the counties
in New York. We will create interactive maps showing the rate of food
insecurity in the US and in the state of New York. Creating interactive
maps using Plotly in a Dashboard may present some potential coding
challenges.

We also plan to link to American Community Survey US Census data, which
contains county, town and state-level breakdowns of relevant social
determinants of health, including percent of people who are foreign
born, percent of people without health insurance, and percent of people
who have various degrees of educational attainment. We plan to explore
the relative associations of select social determinants and food
insecurity indicators at the state and county levels.

The planned timeline:

We plan to import and clean all of our data by November 18. After that
we plan to create all of our summary tables and visualizations by
November 29. We plan to create our website, screencast, and final report
by December 3.
